RHDEVDOCS-3306: Document running image build tasks as unprivileged builds (#44733)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-running-unpriveleged-builds-in-a-container.adoc

[id='op-running-unpriveleged-builds-in-a-container._{context}']
= Running unprivileged builds in a container

> You can run builds as a non-root user inside a container. To run as a non-root user inside the container, you need your container to do some set up to add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run builds as a non-root user inside a container. To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must first add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.
```
- Edit for concision. The `you need` phrase is too wordy.

The public image based on Red Hat UBI has everything already set up for us in its https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/ubi8/buildah/602686f7b16b1eb2e30807ee?container-tabs=dockerfile[Containerfile]. As an extra step, you need to “force” running the container as the “build” user since if we leave it to the default, it will be “randomed” and would not have the setup needed to run as non-root.

> You can directly edit or export to a specific namespace the buildah ClusterTask as described in the previous section. You can add this `securityContext`` to each https://github.com/tektoncd/operator/blob/main/cmd/openshift/operator/kodata/tekton-addon/addons/02-clustertasks/buildah/buildah-task.yaml#L63[build] and https://github.com/tektoncd/operator/blob/main/cmd/openshift/operator/kodata/tekton-addon/addons/02-clustertasks/buildah/buildah-task.yaml#L75[push] steps.

Reviewer 2: @sferich888 or @RickJWagner please review these links to github.com. If needed, would you suggest alternatives?

Reviewer 3: no github links (.)
there is no reason why our OCP docs' can't mirror down the content of those links (or capture what it is trying to say/show in our product docs).

Reviewer 2: Please remove these links to github.com. If we need the content, Red Hat should publish similar information so that we can link to it. 
To summarize Eric's PoV:
"No github links (.)
Docs needs to enforce this.
There is no reason why our OCP docs' can't mirror down the content of those links (or capture what it is trying to say/show in our product docs)."

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
----

> Since we are building as user, buildah will keep its image caching in `/home/build/.local/cache`. Hence instead of volume mounting `/var/lib/` containers we are going to change the `mountPath` on build and push steps to the user one :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because you are building as a local user, buildah saves its image cache to `/home/build/.local/cache`. Thus, instead of  mounting the containers located in the `/var/lib/` directory, change the `mountPath` for the build to your local user container directory by changing the value for `mountPath` as follows:
```
- The first sentence doesn't make sense to me in this context. Why does the user need to know about where the cache directory is located when you're talking about the local `volumeMount` path?
- Per ISG: Do not use "since" to mean "because".
- Why are these sentences suddenly using "we"? You need to rephrase so that the sentence becomes "you"-centric. I've suggested one possible way of achieving this.
- Per ISG: Avoid future tense

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
volumeMounts:
    - name: varlibcontainers
      mountPath: /home/build/.local/share/containers
----

> You can test it using https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/main/docs/workspaces.md#configmap[ConfigMap workspace] along with a sample DockerFile and a sample taskrun.

Reviewer 2: Please remove these links to github.com. See previous note.

> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer: This verification step should be split into two blocks: one with the command code block for `$ tkn tr logs -Lf buildah-run` and then a sample output section.

> [id='op-running-unpriveleged-builds-in-a-container._{context}']

Reviewer 2: Every file must begin with a `:_content-type:`. Please refer to the mod docs standard for more information.

> = Running unprivileged builds in a container

Reviewer 4: Reading through this content, it seems like you want to document a procedure, because you have several actions for the user to take. 

However, you haven't written a procedure with instructions for the user. 

Please revise this whole section so that it adheres to the modular guidelines for a procedure module or a concept module, based off what you need to write. 

See this link for modular guidelines help: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#creating-procedure-modules

> You can run builds as a non-root user inside a container. To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must first add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.

Reviewer 4: Why would I want to though? I think we need to state the value of the running builds as a non-root user. Especially since the previous procedures and content posited that running containers a root user is a good, helpful thing.

> The public image based on Red Hat UBI has everything already set up for us in its https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/ubi8/buildah/602686f7b16b1eb2e30807ee?container-tabs=dockerfile[Containerfile]. As an extra step, you need to “force” running the container as the “build” user since if we leave it to the default, it will be “randomed” and would not have the setup needed to run as non-root.

Reviewer 4: Typically, you only want to embed links in additional resources or preqs, but even be careful there. Clicking links takes users away from your documentation. 

Also, avoid `us` and `we`. Like the IBM SG wants, focus exclusively on the user.

You can directly edit or export to a specific namespace the buildah ClusterTask as described in the previous section. You can add this `securityContext`` to each build and push steps.

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
----

> Because you are building as a local user, buildah saves its image cache to `/home/build/.local/cache`. Thus, instead of mounting the containers located in the `/var/lib/` directory, change the `mountPath` for the build to your local user container directory by changing the value for `mountPath` as follows:

Reviewer 4: Starting here, the docs preview link in your PR does not render any of this content. See the screenshot: 
<img width="703" alt="Screen Shot 2022-05-31 at 1 52 31 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70717303/171252790-cf8897a4-14bb-4edc-804d-4bcde31575fa.png">

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
volumeMounts:
    - name: varlibcontainers
      mountPath: /home/build/.local/share/containers
----

> You can test it using https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/main/docs/workspaces.md#configmap[ConfigMap workspace] along with a sample DockerFile and a sample taskrun.

Reviewer 2: - As mentioned earlier, we cannot include links to GitHub without getting special permission. Instead, I strongly recommend creating a doc topic that covers this same content and adding it to this PR. 
- Also, please do not mark unresolved issues like this one as resolved. If there's some difficulty resolving the issue, I recommend having a conversation with the reviewer.

> :_content-type: PROCEDURE

Reviewer 5: module missing list of included assemblies

> [id='op-running-unpriveleged-builds-in-a-container._{context}']

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[id="op-running-unpriveleged-builds-in-a-container_{context}"]
```
Please use correct format for these headings

= Running unprivileged builds in a container

You can run builds as a non-root user inside a container to restrict specific container activities and enhance security.

> [INFO]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
```
Please use one of [the four supported admonition types](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#admonitions).

> [INFO]

Reviewer 5: As Rolfe mentioned above, please use one of the supported admonition types

====

> To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must first add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.

Author: Need SME input here.

> To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must first add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.

Reviewer 2: Configuring the `/etc/subuid` and `/etc/subgid` files seems to be a practice for rootless containers. See:
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-in-userns/
- https://rootlesscontaine.rs/getting-started/common/subuid/  

```suggestion
To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must contain the `/etc/subuid` and `/etc/subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.
```

> To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must first add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.

Reviewer 6: as @rolfedh said it is common practice, the system manpage gives a good explainer too https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/subuid.5.html

> To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must first add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.

Reviewer 2: @HarshCasper I think my suggestion above satisfies @abrennan89's request. Please implement it and mark this thread as resolved.

====

> .Procedure

Reviewer 5: Please add prerequisites before all procedures

> . Use the public https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/ubi8/buildah/602686f7b16b1eb2e30807ee?container-tabs=dockerfile[Containerfile] image based on Red Hat UBI.

Reviewer 2: Can you specify how I should use it? Is there a command?

Reviewer 5: Also, "use" doesn't make clear what it's being used for, can this be reworded to explain how / what it's used for?

Author: Need SME input here.

Reviewer 2: @chmouel I've asked you for clarification in the google doc here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1swGqQRF4kPg9EsMue9I-XYI654oo0FMtwP0cROFU3so/edit?disco=AAAAbLSIAtE

> . Force run the container as the “build” user to prevent it from being “randomed” which will not have the setup needed to run as non-root.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Force the container to run as the `build` user. This ensures that the container setup required to run as a non-root user:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
<Harsh, can we provide an example command here?>
----
```
Or simply
```suggestion
. Run the container as the `build` user:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
<Harsh, can we provide an example command here?>
----
```

Reviewer 2: In general, use straight quotes and backticks. Avoid "curly quotes."

Author: Need SME input here.

Reviewer 2: @chmouel: What is the command to "run the container as the `build` user?

> . Add `securityContext`` to each build and push steps to directly edit or export to a specific namespace the buildah ClusterTask.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how to interpret this sentence. Would you revise it for clarity?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add `securityContext` to each build and push steps to directly edit or export to a specific namespace the buildah `ClusterTask` resource.
```

Reviewer 2: Please:
- Remove the surplus backtick.
- Either label the `ClusterTask` as a resource or call it a "cluster task."

Reviewer 5: Any `resource` in backticks / where a literal name is used should be followed by a noun explaining what it is. See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting in the guidelines. I'd say this also applies for `securityContext`.

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
----

. Change the `mountPath` for the build to your local user container directory to use the image cache.
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
volumeMounts:
    - name: varlibcontainers
      mountPath: /home/build/.local/share/containers
----

> 

Reviewer 2: If the rest of this procedure contains verification steps, consider adding a Verification section heading here.
```suggestion
.Verification
```

> . Test it using https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/main/docs/workspaces.md#configmap[ConfigMap workspace] along with a sample DockerFile and a sample taskrun.

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately, our docs cannot contain links to GitHub. Instead, please add this content to our documentation. If it fits, you can add it here in the topic. Otherwise, create a reference module and then link to it from here.

+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ tkn tr logs -Lf buildah-run
----
+

> The following output is displayed:
> +
> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
```

Reviewer 2: Please replace  `<Harsh, describe what the user should see>`  with a description.

Author: Need SME input here.

----
[build] ++ id
[build] Running as USER ID uid=1000(build) gid=1000(build) groups=1000(build),1000690000
[build] + echo 'Running as USER ID uid=1000(build) gid=1000(build) groups=1000(build),1000690000'
[build] + buildah --storage-driver=vfs bud --format=oci --tls-verify=true --no-cache -f ./Dockerfile -t image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/test/buildahuser .
[build] STEP 1: FROM registry.access.redhat.com/ubi8/ubi AS buildah-runner
[build] Getting image source signatures
[build] Checking if image destination supports signatures
[build] Copying blob sha256:adffa69631469a649556cee5b8456f184928818064aac82106bd08bd62e51d4e
[build] Copying blob sha256:26f1167feaf74177f9054bf26ac8775a4b188f25914e23bda9574ef2a759cce4
[build] Copying config sha256:fca12da1dc30ed8e7d03afb84b287fc695673fff9c04bfcb2ff404b558670a36
[build] Writing manifest to image destination
[build] Storing signatures
[build] STEP 2: RUN dnf -y update &&     dnf -y install git &&     dnf clean all
[build] Updating Subscription Management repositories.
[...]

> ----

Reviewer 2: Is there something specific the user should be looking for in this output?

Author: Nothing specific — It should just serve the user to understand better on what could be the expected output.

Reviewer 2: @HarshCasper you can mark this as resolved.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cicd/pipelines/running-workloads-and-buildah-as-user-namespaces-on-openshift-pipelines.adoc
:_content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="op-running-unpriveleged-builds-in-a-container_{context}"]
= Running unprivileged builds in a container

You can run builds as a non-root user inside a container to restrict specific container activities and enhance security.

[IMPORTANT]
====
To run as a non-root user inside the container, your container must first add the `subuid` and `subgid` with the latest shadow-utils.
====

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.Prerequisites
* [A `ConfigMap` storage volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap) that the build can use as a workspace.

```

.Procedure

. Use the public https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/ubi8/buildah/602686f7b16b1eb2e30807ee?container-tabs=dockerfile[Containerfile] image based on Red Hat UBI.

. Force run the container as the “build” user to prevent it from being “randomed” which will not have the setup needed to run as non-root.

. Add `securityContext` to each build and push steps to directly edit or export to a specific namespace the buildah `ClusterTask` resource.
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
...
securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
...
----

> . Change the `mountPath` for the build to your local user container directory to use the image cache:

Reviewer 7: I guess that `build` refers to the new user, doesn't it? It is confusing.

Reviewer 2: @ppitonak  Is this what you mean?
```suggestion
. Change the `mountPath` for the build to your new local user container directory to use the image cache:
```

Reviewer 2: @HarshCasper  please revise to:
```suggestion
. Change the `mountPath` so that builds use the local container directory of the new user:
```

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
...
volumeMounts:
    - name: varlibcontainers
      mountPath: /home/build/.local/share/containers
...
----

.Verification

> . Use a configMap prior to submitting the TaskRun to use as a workspace:

Reviewer 2: We need to use ConfigMap in accordance with our object naming standards. That is, replace configMap with either of the following:
- ``ConfigMap` object` (note the different capitalization)
- `config map`
```suggestion
. Use a configMap prior to submitting the TaskRun to use as a workspace:
```

> . Use a `ConfigMap` object prior to submitting the TaskRun to use as a workspace:

Reviewer 7: What is the content of this config map?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Define a workspace for your task run by referencing a `ConfigMap` object:
```

Reviewer 2: As the SMEs here, @chmouel and @ppitonak, this question is for you to determine: What should the content of this ConfigMap be? What do users need to know about its contents?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Use the `configMap` field to reference an existing `ConfigMap` volume that the build can use as a workspace:
```

> +
> [source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
.Example workspaces field in a Pipelinerun definition
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
```
@chmouel, please confirm: Is this a Pipelinerun definition we're talking about here?

----
...
workspaces:
  - name: myworkspace
    configmap:
      name: my-configmap
...
----

> . Test it using the above `ConfigMap` object workspace along with a sample DockerFile and a sample taskrun.

Reviewer 7: Which sample?

Reviewer 2: Who is this question for? As the SMEs here, @chmouel and @ppitonak, please make actionable recommendations.

+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ tkn tr logs -Lf buildah-run
----
+

> The following output is displayed:

Reviewer 2: Because the user is testing (line 57), line 64 should describe the output the user should expect to see, such as the key phrase in the last line of output?
SME please recommend.

> +
> The following output is displayed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I recommend removing lines 63 and 64, above.

+
[source,terminal]

> .Example output
> ----

Reviewer 2: Please invert line 66 and 67 so you get:
```suggestion
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
```
